Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
In this month’s program,
we’ll see how much the Bible
can improve our lives,
how it can save us from lasting harm,
how it can help us
to get along with one another,
and how it reassures us
that even if we stumble,
Jehovah will help us find our way back.
From the life of John the Baptist,
we’ll learn how to cope with fear,
rejoice when others are blessed,
and maintain a positive attitude
even when facing problems.
We’ll see
from Brother Gordon Mackay’s experience
that Jehovah wants us
to “draw close to [him]”
even if we’ve had
a serious spiritual setback.
And our newest music video
extends a warm invitation to all
who find themselves estranged from Jehovah
and his imperfect but faithful family.
It reminds us of what a wonderful blessing
our spiritual home is.
This is the February 2024 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
When I was young,
one of my favorite desserts
was my mother’s sweet potato pie.
It always tasted the same.
To me, it was perfect every time.
I’d often ask her,
“Ma, what do you put in here
to make it taste so good?”
She’d always respond,
“I just use the same stuff every time.”
In other words, number one,
she wasn’t going to tell me.
And two,
she had a recipe that worked,
so she never changed it.
Well, the Bible is like a cookbook,
full of recipes that work,
that can make
our life spiritually successful.
Please note how Paul explains
the benefits of these recipes
at 2 Timothy 3:16, 17:
“All Scripture is inspired of God
“and beneficial for teaching, for reproving,
“for setting things straight,
for disciplining in righteousness,
“so that the man of God
may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.”
Sometimes the recipe from God’s inspired Word
comes in the form of a Bible example.
As we study that example,
we extract qualities and attitudes
that we can imitate.
At other times,
there’s a list of qualities,
such as the various aspects
of the fruitage of God’s spirit
mentioned in Galatians chapter 5
or the list of positive things to consider
at Philippians 4:8, 9.
And, of course,
there are numerous Bible principles
that we can use
to help us make good decisions.
Meditating on and applying
these principles,
qualities, and examples
can be a recipe
that contributes to spiritual success.
Let’s consider one example.
It’s recorded at 1 Peter 3:8.
Take note of the ingredients.
“All of you have unity of mind,
“fellow feeling,
“brotherly affection,
“tender compassion,
and humility.”
This is a recipe
of five beautiful qualities
that contribute to our spiritual success.
How so?
Let’s discuss the ingredients.
Peter first mentions “unity of mind.”
The footnote says “think in agreement.”
So we must think in agreement
with one another
but especially with Jehovah
and his organization.
In what way?
The latter part of Isaiah 30:15 says:
“Your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
That’s exactly what the faithful slave
has done.
So let us have unity of mind with them
and have the same calmness
and confidence in Jehovah
as we face personal challenges in our life.
In 2 Kings chapter 4,
a Shunammite woman is mentioned
who had confidence in the prophet Elisha.
She suffered a terrible tragedy in her life.
Yet, she remained calm
and showed trust
in “the man of the true God,” Elisha.
Her example of trust
in Jehovah’s representative
is worthy of imitation.
In fact, there is an expression
she uses in chapter 4
that conveys the level of trust
we want to have in Jehovah
and his earthly representatives today.
Let me tell you about this woman.
She and her husband lived in Shunem.
Elisha would regularly make
encouraging visits with them
when he was in that city.
Elisha appreciated their hospitality
and wanted to do something kind for them.
What would he do?
Well, verses 14-16
of 2 Kings chapter 4
indicate that she did not have a son
and that her husband was old.
So Elisha told her that the next year
she would be embracing a son.
Well, as Elisha foretold,
she gave birth the next year.
But unfortunately,
something drastic happened.
The child grew up
and one day went out to work with his father.
In verse 19,
the boy complained of a headache,
which led to his eventual death.
Oh my!
What would this woman do?
This was her only son.
Well, she had confidence
in “the man of the true God,” Elisha,
so she says to her husband in verse 22:
“Send me, please, one of the attendants
“and one of the donkeys,
“and let me go quickly
to the man of the true God and return.”
In verse 23, her husband asks:
“Why are you going to see him today?”
In other words,
“What can he do for us?”
Ah, note her response
at the end of verse 23 and verse 24:
“However, she said:
“‘Everything is all right.’
“So she saddled the donkey
“and said to her attendant: ‘Go quickly.
Do not slow down for me unless I tell you to.’”
So this calm, trusting woman
rides about 19 miles, or 30 kilometers,
and finds Elisha.
And he ends up resurrecting her son.
Her trusting relationship
and association with Elisha
had given her confidence.
Although she experienced a tragedy,
she knew that everything was all right.
Elisha’s faith and confidence in Jehovah
helped this devoted woman also
to remain calm and confident
when facing adversity.
At Isaiah 41:10,
note Jehovah’s assurance:
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
“I will fortify you, yes, I will help you,
“I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.”
So let’s work hard to have unity of mind
with Jehovah’s organization
by keeping calm
and showing trust in Jehovah
and by being confident
that with Jehovah’s help
everything will be all right.
That’s a beautiful ingredient
in this recipe for spiritual success.
At 1 Peter 3:8,
Peter next mentions three more ingredients.
They are aspects of love:
“fellow feeling,
“brotherly affection,
tender compassion.”
These aspects of love convey empathy.
Empathy is “the ability to understand
and share the feelings of another.”
As this system draws to a close,
Satan will try to divide us from within.
So love for our brothers and sisters
and empathizing with one another
will become ever more important.
It will serve to unify us.
Think of the empathy
of Jehovah’s organization.
We all have personal challenges,
but so do our overseers,
those taking the lead
in the organization here on earth.
Some of them have lost loved ones in death
just like us.
Some have experienced sickness and anxiety
We love them for their empathy.
Think about the heavenly part
of Jehovah’s organization.
Since Satan’s rebellion,
Jehovah has been disappointed,
saddened, angered at the actions
of imperfect men.
These are real feelings
that our empathetic heavenly Father
possesses.
Jesus experienced
similar disappointment and sadness
as he also saw the rebellion
of Satan, Adam, and Eve
and what’s resulted.
In fact,
Jesus’ understanding became deeper
when he became human
and began to experience human emotions.
The April 15, 2002, Watchtower  article
entitled
“Empathy—Key to Kindness and Compassion”
mentioned three ways
we can sharpen our sensitivity
to the needs and feelings of others.
The first: ‘Listen.
‘By listening carefully,
‘we learn what problems others face.
‘And the better we listen,
‘the more likely
they will open up their hearts
and reveal their feelings.’
Second: ‘Observe.
‘Not everyone will openly tell us
‘how they feel
‘or what they are going through.
‘A keen observer will notice
‘when a fellow Christian needs encouragement
or some practical assistance.’
Third: “Use Your Imagination.
“The most powerful way to stimulate empathy
“is to ask yourself:
“‘If I were in this situation,
“‘how would I feel?
“‘How would I respond?
What would I need?’”
So fellow feeling, brotherly affection,
and tender compassion
are aspects of loving empathy
and are valuable ingredients
to our spiritual success
and will benefit others.
The final quality highlighted at 1 Peter 3:8
is humility.
Why do we need humility?
Because we need to trust.
Trust in Jehovah and his organization
requires humility
—not relying on our own strength or wisdom.
Humility helps us to cope
with whatever God permits.
When we face anxiety
and pressure in our life,
we may yearn for immediate relief.
But humility helps us to trust
that Jehovah knows precisely when
and how to act in our behalf.
So we wait
patiently.
Jehovah always responds to our needs
in his time and in his way.
Humility helps us to admit
that Jehovah’s thoughts
are vastly superior to our own.
We recognize our limited discernment
in comparison
with Jehovah’s all-encompassing perception.
He sees things we do not discern,
and thus we trust
that his way of doing things
is always best.
So as the great tribulation approaches,
humbly trust in Jehovah
and his organization.
First Peter chapter 5,
and verse 6 says this:
“Humble yourselves, therefore,
“under the mighty hand of God,
so that he may exalt you in due time.”
Brothers, there is no better place to be
than “under the mighty hand of God.”
Humility is a beautiful ingredient
that helps us to remain there.
So, what were the ingredients
in our recipe for spiritual success?
First was unity of mind.
Be at unity with Jehovah’s organization today
by keeping calm and showing trust.
In the words of the Shunammite woman
in 2 Kings chapter 4,
when facing adversity,
always know that with Jehovah
“everything is all right.”
Second was fellow feeling,
brotherly affection, and tender compassion
—all aspects of loving empathy.
Remember, we’re all in this together.
The celestial chariot
is empathetic toward what we face
and will respond
to our personal and organizational needs.
Finally, try always
to include humility
in your recipe for success.
Humility requires trust,
so trust that Jehovah’s way of doing things
is always best.
Psalm 119:105 says
that the Bible “is a lamp to my foot,
and a light for my path.”
So take time to consider
a portion of God’s Word each day.
As situations, decisions,
and challenges arise,
search for the right recipe
—Bible example, Christian quality, principle.
When you do,
Jehovah will light up
the path ahead of you
and help you to be spiritually successful.
We’ve seen that the Bible’s “recipes”
can make our life spiritually successful
and help us improve our relationships.
In the following interview,
note how applying
a recipe of Bible principles
can also undo
the damage caused by poor decisions.
We graduated in June, got married in July,
and had a child in November.
So it was a happy time.
At one point, two Witnesses
knocked on my door,
and they showed me Psalm 83:18,
that God’s name is Jehovah.
They offered a Bible study,
but my study only lasted two to three weeks.
We got a car.
We started going to parties
—starting to smoke,
having drugs, getting drunk.
We did all these things
that really tore our marriage apart.
We thought moving away from our town
and our old associates would help.
It was worse then ever.
Baseball was more important to me
than even my wife.
I had a real problem with headship.
There were times when I felt like
I was smarter than him,
so I felt like I could make
a better decision than he could make.
In time, Zanna left me for another person,
and that’s what really hurt me.
Zanna had a hard time
with drugs and so forth.
That’s when I got custody of the kids.
I decided at that moment that I was done,
and Jehovah
popped into my head.
I remember
getting down
and telling Jehovah,
“Just show me; show me what to do.”
I went through the telephone book
and looked up Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They gave me a book,
a Family Life  book.
I showed him that book,
and I told him,
“Had we applied this in our marriage
“from the beginning,
our marriage would’ve never broken up.”
My mind was going:
‘Really? Really?’
But I’d see she was doing things
in a spiritual way.
She stopped doing drugs,
and I just saw her mannerisms change.
In that short period of time,
things got better and better.
And then I started
studying the Bible with Zanna.
That’s when things started clicking.
One of the scriptures
that helped me to rebuild our marriage
is 1 Corinthians 11:3.
Art is my head; I am not the head.
Knowing that everybody
but Jehovah has a head,
I view that as a protection.
Now I don’t have
to make decisions on my own.
Galatians 5:22, 23
—that helped me to show love,
to be a better husband,
a better father.
And I always treat her like a lady,
you know, listen to her viewpoints
and things like that.
I remarried Arthur
on April 2, 1979.
I would tell someone
who is struggling in their marriage now,
“Apply Bible principles
—apply them.”
We learned to be a family with Jehovah,
and that’s why we can deal with the problems
that we have to face every day.
The second time around
is so much sweeter
with Jehovah in the picture.
Amazing—isn’t it?—
how learning and applying Bible principles
and keeping Jehovah in the picture
made such a difference for Art and Zanna!
That’s why we exert ourselves
to bring God’s Word
to as many as possible.
This includes helping people hear the truth
in the language of their heart.
I know you’ll enjoy our next segment
on how a publishing innovation
invented by our brothers years ago
has accelerated
the translation of the good news,
leading to the greatest witness in history.
Jehovah’s Witnesses are known
for publishing in hundreds of languages,
with a website recognized
as the most widely translated in the world.
But have you ever wondered
how we’re able to release our literature
in print and online
in so many languages at once?
The answer involves
a cutting-edge publishing system
that our brothers developed
more than 40 years ago
—a breakthrough in publishing called MEPS.
But just what is MEPS?
Let’s find out and see how this technology
has helped to unite Jehovah’s people
and has opened the way for us
to give the greatest witness in history.
God’s people have long understood
the need to share the truth
in as many languages as possible.
Revelation 14:6
prophesied that the good news
would be preached
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
So as far back as the late 1800’s,
the early Bible Students
translated our literature
into languages other than English
so that people could learn the truth
in their mother tongue.
But for decades, publishing
the good news in many languages
was a labor-intensive process.
Imagine yourself working
at a Bethel printery decades ago.
It was hot and loud.
Printing required the use
of a Linotype machine,
which turned molten lead
into small metal slabs of type called slugs
one line at a time.
Workers had
to meticulously compose pages
by arranging the slugs
into large metal frames
that were used to make special embossed mats.
Then more hot metal was used
to cast printing plates from the mats.
And for long press runs,
the plates then had to be electroplated
with nickel to harden them.
Finally, after removing any irregularities,
the plates were ready to be mounted
on a large rotary printing press.
Publishing the same material
in another language meant
repeating these prepress steps
from beginning to end.
It took months for a single magazine
to be translated from English,
typeset, and printed.
For books, it could take years!
The days of hot metal were quickly ending.
The printing industry began adopting the use
of phototypesetting and offset presses.
It was time to modernize operations at Bethel
and make the transition to computers.
But the brothers faced a unique challenge.
At this point,
we were already printing literature
in 167 languages.
So we needed a solution
that could handle
all those languages and more.
And not one of the commercially available
systems could do that.
So in 1979,
a group of brothers and sisters
were called to Watchtower Farms
in Wallkill, New York,
to develop a Multilanguage Electronic
Phototypesetting System,
or MEPS.
So we got to work on building MEPS.
Some brothers and sisters concentrated
on the hardware—the actual circuitry.
Other brothers concentrated
on the screen itself and building that.
And then others of us
concentrated on the software,
the operating system, you might say.
The MEPS team designed
and built almost everything
—computers, keyboards, screens, and software.
They had to.
Personal computers with the power needed
still weren’t available
and wouldn’t be for another few years.
Another massive part of the project
involved creating the fonts
—the individual letters
used to make up the pages of text.
Commercial fonts weren’t available
or were too expensive
for many of the languages needed.
So brothers and sisters
had to draw each character by hand
and scan them into the computer.
For some languages,
this meant drawing thousands of characters.
The software then had to be programmed
with all the rules
for spacing and hyphenation
so that words and characters
could be displayed correctly.
Just three years after the project began,
the first MEPS unit was completed in 1982.
With MEPS, an operator could enter text
at a computer workstation
in any supported language.
After this, the workstation
could be used to format the text
and compose pages.
This approach allowed the brothers
to use a single-page layout‎
‎to produce the same publication
for all languages.
The final pages were then rendered
on photographic paper,
transferred to film,
and used to make printing plates.
MEPS didn’t do the translation itself.
That was, and still is,
a job for human translators.
But it allowed all the prepress work
to be completed in a fraction of the time.
And MEPS achieved something
even more important
than increased speed and efficiency.
It addressed a global spiritual need.
Even before the MEPS project began,
the Governing Body realized
that if Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide
could somehow study the same material
each week at meetings,
it would unite them as never before.
And it was clear that with MEPS,
along with faster presses
and other adjustments in production,
this could finally become a reality.
In fact, so much time could be saved
in this projected operation
that someday we may be able
to bring out The Watchtower
in all principal languages
with each dated issue
containing exactly the same spiritual food
for the brothers all around the world.
The April 1, 1984,
issue of The Watchtower
became the first to be published
in multiple languages simultaneously.
In just the next year,
the number of simultaneous languages
grew to 23.
And by 2021,
the study edition of The Watchtower
was being published simultaneously
in more than 390 languages!
Almost all of Jehovah’s Witnesses
are now able to study the same spiritual food
at our meetings
at the same time
—truly a modern-day miracle!
Today, MEPS does a lot more than typesetting.
It’s grown to become
a full set of publishing tools.
MEPS programming paved the way
for Watchtower Library  on CD-ROM
and contributed to the development
of the JW Library®  app.
In fact, the MEPS acronym now stands
for Multilanguage
Electronic Publishing System
because it drives our publishing
both in print and online.
In the end, the story of MEPS
is more than a story of technology;
it’s one of love.
Love moved the Governing Body
to seek better ways to provide spiritual food
to people of every “tribe and tongue.”
As a result of that love
and with Jehovah’s holy spirit,
we now enjoy unprecedented unity
and the ability to preach the good news
on a scale never before possible.
From molten metal slabs of type
to computerized publishing,
the development of MEPS
has been a real blessing.
It’s helped unify Jehovah’s people
as we preach the good news
“in all the inhabited earth
for a witness to all the nations.”
But what if we face a situation
where we personally begin to wonder
if Jehovah is blessing us?
Let’s see how lessons
from the life of John the Baptist
can help us remain certain
of Jehovah’s love and protection.
I knew this day would come.
True Christians
expect opposition,
but it hurt to see Brother Vasil
get arrested.
After what happened,
I was scared to talk about Jehovah.
Marcos has been looking for work for months.
It’s starting to feel hopeless.
I appreciate that he supports me
in the pioneer ministry,
but shouldn’t he focus on finding work?
I was so happy
when I heard Nicole got invited to SKE,
but as I kept thinking about it,
I started to feel empty,
disappointed.
Others seem to get so many privileges.
Why not me?
In my Bible reading,
I found an example of courage
to preach boldly despite opposition.
After I told Marcos how I was feeling,
we considered a Bible character
who endured with hope.
Jesus said:
“Among those born of women,
“there has not been raised up
anyone greater than John the Baptist.”
Many that listened to him
were moved to repent and get baptized,
preparing their hearts
to receive the Messiah.
He even baptized
the Son of God.
But as Jesus’ ministry increased,
John’s began to decrease.
When his disciples
pointed that out to John,
he humbly rejoiced
at what Jehovah was accomplishing
through Jesus.
However, John faced adversity
just like worshippers of Jehovah today.
John was imprisoned
for boldly declaring the truth.
Nothing prevented him
from preaching courageously.
As time passed and he remained in prison,
John needed reassurance,
just like I do.
His disciples returned
with a message from Jesus:
Observe what Jehovah
is accomplishing around you.
Now I see what Jehovah
is accomplishing around me.
I can imitate John the Baptist
and endure with hope.
I have so many reasons to be joyful,
among them seeing Jehovah use others
to accomplish his will.
People need to learn about Jehovah.
Like John, I can have courage,
no matter what adversity I may face.
Excellent lessons for us all!
One sister was overly concerned
about her husband finding employment.
But she later realized the value
of him keeping up his spiritual routine
in the ministry with her.
Another sister felt empty and disappointed,
but she learned to rejoice,
as did John,
in seeing Jehovah use others
to advance Kingdom interests.
And our brother who faced persecution
learned to overcome his fear and speak up.
Often, in lands where our work is banned,
lies and propaganda are spread
to justify persecution.
But it’s not just in such lands
where we face false reports,
misinformation, and outright lies.
In fact,
even though we bear the truth,
apostates and others
may cast us as dishonest, as deceivers.
How can we respond to that unfair treatment?
Let’s listen to Brother Seth Hyatt’s
recent Morning Worship discussion,
Speaking Truth Though Labeled as Deceivers.
Have you ever been confronted
by a bad report,
a false report,
about Jehovah’s people?
It may be a newspaper article
or a segment on the evening news
or perhaps some subject
is brought up in the ministry.
It could be a broad range of subjects:
our neutral stand,
our stand on blood,
our adherence
to Jehovah’s elevated moral standards
and appreciation
for the sanctity of marriage,
or our insistence
on keeping the congregation clean
by disfellowshipping
unrepentant wrongdoers.
But whatever the subject,
there are some commonalities.
Such reports
are often characterized by distortions,
inaccuracies,
and sometimes outright falsehood.
And inevitably,
they’re presented with certainty and surety
as though they were fact.
When you’re confronted with such a report,
how do you feel:
disheartened, discouraged,
angry?
Consider the experience of a pioneer sister
who was conducting a Bible study.
In the course of conducting the study,
a woman walked into the house unannounced.
She didn’t ring the doorbell, didn’t knock
and, as it turned out,
was an acquaintance of the student.
She walked right in
and interrupted the Bible study.
And in her hand was a book
written by a man who at one time
had associated with Jehovah’s people.
The woman said to the student,
“You need to read this book.”
Well, an interesting conversation ensued,
and our sister found herself in the position
of being cast in the role of a deceiver.
How did she handle that situation,
and how did the Bible student respond?
Well, before we answer that question,
let’s see how the words of today’s text
and surrounding verses
can help us to have the proper view.
Look, if you would, please,
at 2 Corinthians chapter 6,
and notice verse 4.
Paul says:
“In every way
we recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers.”
Now, what follows is a lengthy series
of circumstances and situations
that the apostle Paul faced in his ministry
and that faithful Christians
have faced in their ministry ever since.
In verse 7, the words of today’s text:
“We recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers, . . .
by truthful speech.”
Well, we worship Jehovah, “the God of truth,”
and we take delight in that.
And as our Watchtower  comment
makes the point,
we’re truthful in things “big and small.”
We love the truth.
We love telling the truth about Jehovah.
So it’s interesting to note
Paul’s words in verse 8.
He says:
“Through glory and dishonor,
through bad report and good report.”
And then this intriguing statement:
“We are regarded as deceivers
and yet we are truthful.”
Now, that’s an interesting paradox, isn’t it?
To be truthful
and yet cast in the role of a deceiver.
When we are confronted with a negative report
that does that to Jehovah’s people,
it’s good to remember
that Jehovah was the first target
of such an attack.
Look in your Bible at Genesis chapter 3,
beginning in verse 1:
“Now the serpent was the most cautious
“of all the wild animals of the field
“that Jehovah God had made.
“So it said to the woman:
“‘Did God really say
that you must not eat
from every tree of the garden?’”
Now, we learn something
about Satan’s method.
He didn’t begin with a statement.
He began with a question,
and not just a question,
a question that was designed
to sow seeds of doubt:
“Did God really say that . . . ?”
Now, in verses 2 and 3,
the woman responds.
Toward the close of verse 3,
she actually quotes Jehovah’s command:
“You must not eat from it,
no, you must not touch it;
otherwise you will die.”
So she understood the command,
and she understood the penalty.
But notice in verse 4:
“The serpent said to the woman:
‘You certainly will not die.’”
Now, that was a lie.
But it was presented
with certainty and surety
as though it were a fact.
And then in verse 5:
“For God knows
“that in the very day you eat from it,
“your eyes will be opened
and you will be like God,
knowing good and bad.”
Satan, “the father of the lie,”
cast Jehovah in the role of a deceiver.
Jesus experienced similar attacks
during his earthly ministry,
and the apostle Paul
was labeled by his opposers
as a deceiver.
So when we’re confronted
with negative, false reports,
we’re not surprised.
The question is,
How will we respond?
Have you ever considered some questions
that Eve could have asked herself
that would have helped her
to make a good decision?
Here’s one:
‘What do I know about the person
‘who is the source of this negative report?
‘What is his motive?
‘Does he have my best interests at heart,
or does he have an agenda?’
And another question:
‘Before I accept as truth
‘a negative report from someone I don’t know,
‘is there someone I do know,
‘someone I trust who I can talk with
and get some good advice?’
Well, Eve certainly could have talked
with her husband,
and together they could have talked
with Jehovah.
And if Eve had asked herself those questions,
the world would likely be
a much different place today.
But Eve chose to believe a lie.
How about the pioneer sister
and the Bible student
that I mentioned earlier?
How did they handle the situation?
Well, the pioneer sister told us
that she reflected on the fact
that she was a guest
in the Bible student’s house.
And so she felt it would be rude
for her to interrupt the conversation.
So she chose to say nothing.
What did the Bible student do?
Interestingly, she asked the woman:
“Do you know the man who wrote that book?”
“No.”
“Do you know his motive for writing?
“Why would he write such a book?
“Well, I know this lady who comes
and studies the Bible with me,
“and I know her motive is good.
So I don’t think I need to read your book.”
What a beautiful response!
The Bible student got it,
and we get it too.
We know and we’re not surprised
that we will be the target
of negative reports.
At times, we may even be cast
in the role of deceivers.
Jehovah has frankly told us
that there are some
who are willing to exchange the truth of God
for the lie.
But that will never be true of you or me.
Instead, we hold to Jehovah,
“the God of truth.”
We continue to “recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers . . .
by truthful speech.”
Next, let’s benefit
from the experience of a brother
who made significant life changes
when he accepted the truth
only to slip back and stray from it later.
Notice how Jehovah feels
about those who stray
and how he extends
his loving arm of assistance.
I grew up in the Highlands of Scotland.
It was a beautiful part of the world
to grow up in.
My father (when I was growing up, you know),
he and his friends worked very hard,
but they also drank a lot.
There was a lot of violence
and heavy drinking
and, of course, this sometimes
came in to our home life as well.
By the time I was 14, I’d started drinking
and sometimes I fought
with my father and my stepfather.
It affected my self-esteem
and my view of myself,
and I often went to school
feeling low and crushed.
But at times—
The teachers started to read the Bible to us.
Those accounts touched me so deeply,
and it gave me
a real sense of hope for the future.
I didn’t want to be fighting
and getting into trouble.
I wanted to be a better person.
I had a purpose.
I knew there was more to life than this,
and so I joined the army.
The army gave me the opportunity
to get out of the environment
and to see the world.
Still, on the weekends, we often
ended up drinking too much and being violent.
When I got into trouble,
I always felt deep regret.
I always wanted to change.
So I knew that I needed to escape
from that environment and start off fresh.
So I decided to move to Edinburgh.
I was really doing a lot of fitness training
at this time,
but really what I had done was
that I had replaced one addiction,
which was alcohol,
with another addiction, which was fitness.
So I was smiling on the outside,
but I burned out.
I was in a black hole
where I couldn’t get out.
I knew that God was
the only person that could help me,
and I prayed a lot during that time
so that he would help me
to find happiness and a purpose in life.
A colleague came to work alongside me
who had been in the marines.
We had gone to a nightclub,
and on the way home,
I said that I
didn’t like this type of environment.
And to my surprise, this colleague of mine
started to talk to me about the Bible.
But after two or three hours of my questions,
he said, “I will get my dad to speak to you.”
His father was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
He gave me some publications,
and he encouraged me to read them
alongside the Bible,
looking up the verses in the Bible.
We started to study the Bible
with his father.
We started to attend the meetings.
About one and a half years
after we’d started,
we both got baptized as one
of Jehovah’s Witnesses on the same day.
A few years after I got baptized,
I moved to Germany,
and during that time, unfortunately,
I was disfellowshipped
from the Christian congregation.
I went to work in the North Sea,
and I was so unhappy in this environment
that when I was not working,
I was drinking a lot.
If I was not careful, I would end up
doing some damage to my health.
So I decided to move to Italy.
Often, when I was out riding my bike
and every time I
passed the Kingdom Hall,
I would ask the question,
How am I going to return to Jehovah?
I thought, ‘Well, Jehovah
will never want me to come back.’
One Saturday morning,
the doorbell rang and, sure enough,
it was two of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I knew that Jehovah
had sent these two Witnesses.
And Jehovah was saying:
“I still love you, you know.
No matter what you have done,
I still love you.”
And so for the next few months,
I spent a lot of time thinking about that
and accepting Jehovah’s love.
I still had some distractions in my life.
I was training for a race across the Alps.
I was still working on the oil platforms
in the North Sea.
I wasn’t making spiritual progress.
One time, the elders in the Kingdom Hall
told me that there was no meeting
during the week,
but they encouraged me
to go to an assembly in Rome.
What really touched me the most
was how clean Jehovah’s people were
compared to the people that I’d been
associating with for so many years.
While I was driving home,
I remember there was a storm.
I had all these thoughts
racing through my mind:
‘How did I manage to leave the congregation?
How did I manage to leave Jehovah?’
On that journey home,
I knew that I would never go back to work
on the oil platforms in the North Sea.
I had a lot of free time on my hands,
so I read the Bible a lot
and the publications
from Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And there was something
in those publications that touched me,
because it said:
‘Return to me whole-souled.
Let’s set matters straight between us now.’
I spoke with the elders
and told them of my intent
to attend all the meetings
and to serve Jehovah whole-souled.
And after a period of time,
I was reinstated in the congregation.
When I tried to do things my own way,
my life ended up out of balance—a mess.
I was so unhappy.
But with Jehovah in my life,
it gave me more balance in my life.
It was about learning to accept
Jehovah’s love.
And when I did that,
I started to make progress
because I was able to accept Jehovah’s love
and I was also able to accept the love
through the brothers in the congregation.
Jehovah’s love is way greater than that.
Jehovah’s love is able to cover everything.
So I realized that Jehovah’s wisdom
is, for me, priceless because
Jehovah is the only one
who can turn a negative situation
into something positive and give us
a real sense of purpose
and happiness in our life.
Have you, like Brother Mackay, strayed?
Have you become inactive
or even been removed from the congregation?
Consider the following invitation
so warmly brought to life
in our new music video,
Home.
I can feel lost sometimes,
Like I’m drifting out to sea,
When troubles in my life
Take me far from Kingdom realities.
But I’m never
left in the lurch.
Jehovah hears
and sends out the search.
He finds me,
lifts me up in his arms.
He carries me
safely away from harm.
He brings me back to his fold—
my home, my family.
I am never alone
when I’m home.
There is no place
like this.
It’s a shelter
from the storm
Where I find
peace and rest
And loving friends
who bring out the very best.
So if you find
you’re out on your own,
Jehovah will hear
your cries to come home.
He’ll find you,
lead you back with his voice,
Remind you
serving him was your best choice.
He’ll bring you back to his fold—
your home, your family.
You are never alone
when you’re home.
How we’ll be singing:
“You made it back! Welcome home!”
It’s where you belong;
And we’re so happy to see you.
Now you’re home.
You are home.
He found you,
lifted you up in his arms.
He carried you
safely away from harm.
He brought you back to his fold.
You’ll never be alone
When you’re home.
Home is with Jehovah and his people.
Home is where we belong.
If you’ve wandered,
come home.
The beauty of our spiritual home
extends across the entire world.
Let’s explore another “room” in that home
by visiting our brothers and sisters
in Suriname.
Suriname is a heavily forested country
in South America
that’s almost like an island.
It isn’t currently connected by road
to any other country.
On its east and west,
it’s bounded by rivers;
on the north,
by the Atlantic Ocean;
and to the south, by tropical rainforests,
savannas, and the mighty Amazon River Basin.
While Suriname may be
one of the smallest countries
in South America,
its abundant wild areas host
some of the continent’s largest animals.
The giant anteater, for example,
eats some 35,000 ants and termites a day.
Also found in Suriname are the tapir
(South America’s largest land mammal)
and the jaguar
(the largest of South American cats).
Suriname’s rich diversity
isn’t limited to wildlife.
Its people are one
of the most ethnically diverse in the region.
Their varying customs and foods
enrich the country’s overall culture.
In such
a heavily forested and diverse country,
imagine the challenge
our over 3,300 brothers face,
first reaching
and then preaching to people
in their own languages.
While the official language of Suriname
is Dutch,
the Suriname branch oversees
translation into five other languages:
Sranantongo, Aukan,
Saramaccan, Surinamese Sign Language,
and Carib.
In 2022,
20 translators in Suriname Bethel
worked with 13 full-time commuters
and 8 remote workers
to meet this need.
Let’s meet some of our brothers working
in the various language fields.
The 34 publishers
in the Brownsweg Congregation
speak the Saramaccan language,
used by descendants of escaped slaves
who fled to the country’s interior
almost 400 years ago.
The Apoera Congregation’s 18 Kingdom preachers
conduct 30 Bible studies each month.
Many in the area are Arawak Indians,
among the original inhabitants of Suriname.
Deep in Suriname’s interior
is the Pulugudu Congregation,
located near Pulugudu Falls.
These waters
are notoriously difficult to navigate.
Our brothers are adept
at using their wooden boats
to carry out the preaching work
on the river “roads.”
The 38 publishers preach
in the Maroon Aukan language.
The brothers and sisters of Suriname
and the Brownsweg, Apoera,
and Pulugudu congregations
send you their love.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.